The intersection of Latin and structures of power made this introductory Latin class so much more than just a language credit for me. As a personal rule of thumb I would look for an “a” in the ending to decipher if a word is feminine. Meanwhile, if that “a” isn’t there then I’d usually conclude that it was masculine or feminine. This created a power structure in my mind as I’d isolate feminine words the rest. From the pronoun perspective, I made a lot of connections to my previous study of the Spanish language. I learned that the concept of politeness in “you” forms of pronouns was started in Latin, therefore many newer romance languages built off this concept. As an English speaker it is easy to forget this relationship between pronouns and power. The passive voice added to these concepts as well. In the passive voice we know that the ablative case is often attached which indicates the relationship between people and objects which also builds towards this power structure.

From the CBL prospective, we were dealing more with hypotheticals. Though we weren’t able to actually volunteer with students in the classroom, Ainsley and Jack helped us really get a lot out of the sessions. Typically, Latin and Greek are thought of some of the highest forms of education so it was great to start building the lesson framework for Worcester Public School students who might not ever have had the opportunity to learn a sophisticated language like this. Another instance relating to hypotheticals in the practicum was the discussion surrounding Phuc Tran’s talk called “The Dark Side of the Subjunctive”. This discussion allowed me to realize how fortunate I am that I’m speaking a language that allows me to access another lense and frame for my thoughts. The great thing is that so do these kids in WPS. Next semester I’ll speak to them in the subjunctive and tell them that they can do anything they set their minds to!
